---
title: "\"New American\" essay"
date: "2021-07-01"
description: ''
tags: ['personal']
---

I have been slowly working on fellowship applications. This is an extended answer to one of the essay prompts that I feel would make a good blog post.

---

*Tell us about your experiences as a New American. Whether as an immigrant yourself, or as a child of immigrants, how have your experiences as a New American informed and shaped who you are and your accomplishments?*

It brings me tears to write this on paper, but I am not proud of how I act in my relationship with my parents. They text me daily to ask how I’m doing, but I give them one-word responses. About every week, I call them with a tenacity that can only be explained by being able to check off an item on my to-do list. When my therapist asks me what stops me from being the daughter I want to be, I explain repeatedly that the idea of a *good daughter* is loaded with tension, particularly for children of immigrant parents. "I’m figuring it out," I tell her. I’ve been telling her and myself that for years since I graduated from Stanford.

Like many other children of immigrant parents, I delicately balanced my love for certain ethnic foods with the "what’s that smell?" whines from my classmates in the school cafeteria. I too held onto a canonical story where parents escaped abject poverty in their home country to give their children a plethora of opportunities in America, Land of the Free, Home of the Brave. In a slight plot twist, my parents managed to pick a small town in the middle of Texas instead of a bigger city with many other immigrants, exacerbating the differences between my family and the yee-haw families around us. I clutched my parents’ story, more or less a derivative of the iconic immigrant narrative, close to my chest, refusing to acknowledge its complications until I found myself in the emergency room for a mental health crisis my senior year of college. Between the "What is the problem. Ur xray showed no problems'' text message from my father and my mother flying across multiple states and showing up unannounced because she heard I was living with a boy and she believed his involvement in my life was the cause of my issues, I finally and painfully realized, in the emergency room, that along with the immigrant narrative, my parents passed down their unresolved traumas and mental health unawareness, rendering Freedom an illusion and making it difficult to Bravely resolve the differences between two cultures.

A common dream for New Americans is to work hard, attend an elite university, and become "successful" by achieving high status in a lucrative field. Growing up, I was obsessed with the idea of being a *good daughter*. The kids around me looked nothing like me, and I rationalized the difference by focusing on my backstory. I wanted to prove that my parents’ sacrifices to move across the world and start a life in a place they knew nothing about and no one in were worth it. As a *good daughter*, I wanted to make my parents, my role models, proud by working towards this New American Dream. I spent my elementary and middle school years dutifully studying math, focusing on my homework, and being self-sufficient so my mother, a full-time mom, could focus her attention on raising my three younger siblings and my father, a business school professor, could rise in his career and financially support his family. 

In high school, my motivations shifted. My mother, with her conservative social ideals  and knowledge of American high school culture through Hollywood movies, began to show too much interest in my life. She screened my social media accounts for interactions with boys and alerted my father any time she believed I might be "straying away" from being a *good daughter*. At the time, my only interactions with my parents were screaming matches -- after all, if I had a relationship with anyone behind their back, I might get pregnant and have to drop out of school -- and my resentment towards them skyrocketed. All I wanted to do was go to an elite college far away, maybe on the west or east coast, not because I wanted to make my family proud, but because I detested my parents’ values and wanted to escape my family and small town. 

Eventually, I did get out of Texas, but I didn’t seem to escape my internal battles. On the outside, I appeared to be thriving during my undergrad. I took hard classes like optimization and operating systems from rich and famous professors, stole too many iPhone chargers during my internships at Google and Facebook, received branded Patagonia sweaters from all the student organizations I led, developed a network of people in my field with large numbers of Twitter followers, published non life-changing papers in prestigious conferences, found "enlightenment" in 3am conversations over mozzarella sticks with other drunk 19-year-olds, and did many other things Stanford advertises in their admissions brochures. But on the inside, I felt guilty for holding onto the resentment for my parents and my childhood trauma. These feelings of shame and anger manifested in my tumultuous relationships, drove me to question my will to live, and although I accumulated accomplishments, I did not know what I was padding my resume for.  

After college, the next emblem of career success seemed to be starting a tech startup, but I was disillusioned with this idea because I didn’t identify as a fraternity member, nor did I feel passionate about building Uber for pets or Yet Another Social Media App. I liked research, but I was not mentally stable enough to commit to something for five years. Still, I wanted an option where I could have some sense of ownership, so I joined a startup as the first machine learning engineer, giving myself space and time to learn about computer systems and machine learning, develop opinions on how these technologies would change the future, and most importantly resolve my deep-seated resentment towards my family and the immigrant narrative. Slowly, I unraveled my identity of striving to be a *good daughter* by writing essays, both about work and my personal life, about what I was learning. I posted some of the essays about my technical work on the Internet, and hundreds of thousands of people (or bots) read them. Many engineers and data scientists reached out to me asking for advice on how to make their machine learning systems work. I focused more on building open-source software, and for the first time, I found fulfillment separate from being a *good daughter* -- in contributing to a community of engineers and helping to solve other people’s technical problems.

I made strides in my personal life, too. I moved to an 11-bedroom house and helped start a new co-op in San Francisco. People joke that co-ops have a high proportion of mentally ill people, and in my interactions with my like-minded housemates I learned how others overcame their trauma and found happiness in day-to-day experiences. I learned to derive joy from spending hours cooking a meal for my house instead of scheming about my next project to advance my career. We rode our bikes across Golden Gate Park. We read books at a nude beach. We celebrated Halloween every month. We wrote fiction at our weekly writer’s group meetings. Through these activities, I grew into myself -- I found aspects of my personality that were wholly mine, like my strengths in advocating for myself and others, conflict resolution skills, lighthearted sense of humor, a tendency to excitedly approach any topic from an intellectual angle, and more. I learned to be a *good community member* and realized that I had thought about being a *good daughter* incorrectly all along; being a *good community member* involves a desire to support -- not control -- each other in creating our own narratives, not sharing the same narrative.     

I also learned to let go of any guilt and expectations I had placed on myself as a result of internalizing my parents’ traumas. Growing up, I thought my purpose was to achieve the New American Dream, to rise the ranks in some lucrative field, to prove that my parents’ sacrifices were worth it. When I was younger, I thought that my father sacrificed his dreams of taking any risk in his career (such as to start a company) to solely financially provide for his wife and four children in a new country. Maybe there is an element of truth to that, but what I did not realize was that my father may have inadvertently picked a job as a professor, a job that eventually no one could take away from him (after he achieved tenure), because his own father never held a job for more than a paycheck or two. Additionally, as a child, I believed my mother painstakingly quit her job because giving her children her full attention would maximize their likelihood of being "successful." But maybe my mother became a full-time mom because she grew up alone with no siblings and few friends, and maybe her biggest dream, bigger than a career, was to have many children and start her own community and lineage in a new country. There was no dream I, a seemingly unique product of immigrant and American cultures, was required to pursue, and this realization was liberating. 

Only when I released my resentment and found my own values, separate from my parents’ values heavily influenced by their immigrant status, was I able to clearly think about what I wanted to do with my life. I want to shape the future of society in a large and meaningful way. I want to do work that "scales" to help many people, and I recognize that technology is one of the best fields to achieve this goal. In my career, I have derived the most happiness from working at the cutting edge of technology fields, openly sharing my work, and mentoring others. Putting all of the pieces together, I realized I wanted to become a professor and start companies to bring my research to industry. I feel lucky to be starting my PhD in computer science.

In the past few years that I have been exploring my own values, my parents have gone through their own transformations. They’ve independently accepted that there is no shared dream for me to execute and for them to make sacrifices for. I know that the final step in my journey of reconciling my story as a child of immigrants is to learn how I, as a *good family member*, want to show my care and support my parents in achieving their own goals. I would love to be able to tell my father how he inspires me to want to be a professor, to pursue a life as an academic and lifelong student of science. Someday, I want to tell my mother that she inspires me to create a sense of community wherever I am, both locally in my personal life and globally in my profession. I know they are proud of me now, and I hope, in time, I will "figure it out" and be able to tell them how proud I am of them, too. 
